YOUR CHALLENGE

The future does not just happen. Except for natural events like
earthquakes, it comes about through the efforts of people and is
determined largely by how well informed people are. You can play a role
in the shaping of tomorrow’s world by asking yourself questions like, “What
kind of world do I want to live in?” and “What does democracy mean to
me?” There are many other options of organization for the future than
those typically discussed today. 

Here is a scenario for you to consider: Suppose you were called upon to
redesign planetary civilization without any limitations based on how things
are done today. The goal is to help rid the world of war, poverty, hunger,
and environmental degradation, and to create the best world for all
inhabitants, given the resources at hand, for the longest period of time.

Remember, you are free to rearrange society in any way you think will
work. The only limitation is that your social design must factor in the
carrying capacity of the planet, which means the resources have to be
sufficient to support life on the planet.

You can rearrange the entire civilization to make what you consider the
best of all possible worlds, bearing in mind that any unmet need for any
segment of the population reduces the standard of living for all. This may
include not only environmental protection, but also city design,
transportation, interpersonal relationships and the restructuring of
education, if you feel it is necessary.

The options are limitless. Would you have separate nations? Would you
have an international advisory board? How would you manage and
distribute the resources of the world to accommodate the needs of all?
Would you use the scientific method to make decisions, or rely on politics
or mysticism? How would you handle differences in religious beliefs? You
may even consider another system of distribution that doesn’t use money
as a medium of exchange.

On a personal basis, would you seek a position of advantage over others?
Would you claim a bigger house, a more luxurious car, or high-definition
TV? On what basis would you say you deserve these things? Or that others
don’t deserve them? Your skill level? Your investment of time and/or
money?

Remember, if you force any predetermined set of values on other nations,
or others in your own nation or neighborhood for that matter, you will
generate bad feelings. How would you prevent political corruption?
Would you declare universal laws and treaties? Would you use military
and police methods for enforcement? Would you declare all resources
the common heritage of all nations?

In order to accomplish this task one must be free of bias and nationalism,
and reflect those qualities in the design of policies. How would you
approach that? This is a difficult project requiring input from many
disciplines.

These are some of the problems we must consider when thinking about
such a task. It can be a fresh approach, unburdened by past or traditional
considerations, religious or otherwise, but always keeping in mind for
whom this society is to be designed. Feel free to transcend present
realities and reach out for new and creative ideas.

Read the book writed for Earth and humans here:
http://www.files.thevenusproject.com/hotlink-ok/designing_the_future_ebook/Jacque%20Fresco%20-%20Designing%20the%20Future.pdf

Watch the Film for the Earth:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yb5ivvcTvRQ
